---
type: about
title: "About Writing"
parent: writing
---

About Writing
=============

Peter says he didn’t become a writer. He just is one, and always has been,
ever since he can remember, the way a goldfish is a goldfish and can’t be
anything else. Go to a zoo and look at one of the big birds, a condor, say, a
creature made to soar above the Andes. They’ve probably clipped one of its
wings so that it can’t hurt itself trying to fly around its cage, but it’s
still a creature made to soar above the Andes. If you somehow stopped Peter
writing, he’d still be a writer.

But he was a poet and a journalist before he started on books. He tried a
murder story first, but got stuck half way through. Then he had a
science-fictiony kind of nightmare, and decided to turn it into a children’s
story, mainly to see if writing it would unstick the other book. (It did. That
book won a prize for the best murder story of the year, and the children’s
book was made into a TV serial.)

Since then he’s written over fifty books, most of them on a little old
portable typewriter — one draft, to see what he’s got, and what else he needs
to know and so on; then a bit of research; then a complete rewrite, beginning
to end; and then, if all’s well, only a bit more tinkering. Sometimes it used
to take a few months, sometimes a year or more. A few years back he moved over
to a PC. It makes writing seem a very different kind of process — easier in
some ways, harder in others.

The ideas come from all over the place — day-dreams, sometimes, or a kid on a
long car-trip saying “Tell us a new story, dad.” Or something he’s heard or
read — a voice on the radio saying “Even a hardened government soldier may
hesitate a fatal half-second before he guns down a child.” For the best of
them it feels as if the book had knocked on the door of his mind and said
“Write me.” Then he’ll spend half a year or more letting the stranger in and
finding who or what it is.

He has written all sorts of books, crime mainly for adults, though some of
these are almost straight literary novels; but for children fantasies,
historical, modern adventure, science fiction and so on.  There won’t be many
more.  They used to come gushing out of the hillside like a mountain stream.
Then he had to lift them up bucket by bucket from deeper and deeper wells,
But now the wells are empty.  He says.
